LF: version transaction node independently in proto (#7925)
digital-asset/daml: daml-lf/spec/transaction.rst

Backward compatibility
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

DAML-LF transaction nodes, and transactions are encoded according a common versioning scheme, called the *transaction version scheme*.

> Each version of this scheme, called a transaction version, is associated to a unique language version.

Reviewer: Is that true? Isn't `10` assigned to `1.6` up to `1.8`?

Author: I drop unique

In the following *dev* transaction version will refer to a transaction version associated to a *dev* language version and
*stable* transaction version will refer to a transaction version associated to a non-*dev* language version.

> Unlike the serialization format of a *dev* transaction version which can be changed freely without
> compatibility considerations, the serialization format of a *stable* transaction version cannot be changed
> or associated to a different language version once introduced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The serialization format of a *stable* transaction version cannot be changed
or associated to a different language version once introduced.
In contrast, the serialization format of a *dev* transaction version can be changed freely without
compatibility considerations.
```

An consumer compliant with this specification does not have
to provide any support for *dev* transaction version. It must however accept
all stable versions.

Every change to ``transaction.proto`` entails a change to this specification.
`Version history`_ defines a total ordering of all past stable versions; any
stable version *y* unlisted there should be considered *y>k* for any known

> version *k*.  At the top of the specification file, just under the title

Reviewer: > [...]; any
stable version *y* unlisted there should be considered *y>k* for any known
version *k*.

I'm afraid I don't understand what you want to say here. Would you mind paraphrasing in a reply to this comment and I'll help to find a wording that we both understand then?

Author: This sentence is from the previous version originally written by @S11001001. (I just added "stable").
I understand that version not listed in the `Version history` should be considered newer than the one inside the `Version history` , in other words when decoding a  transaction, if you encounter a version you do not know anything about you should consider as newer than any one you know about.

Reviewer: I see. That makes sense. Although I have a hard time reading it from there. Anyway, let's leave it as is for now.

> are written a version number together with a date. While, the version number described the latest
> stable transaction version the file specified, the date indicate when the file was modified for the last time.
> Those changes may included rewording and typo correction in the specification of stable versions and
> arbitrary change in specification of a dev transaction versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are written a version number together with a date. The version number describes the latest
stable transaction version the file specifies and the date indicates when the file was modified for the last time.
Such changes may include rewordings and typo corrections in the specification of stable versions and
arbitrary changes to the specification of the dev transaction version.
```

> A a node, or a transaction of version *n* may be interpreted by consulting any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A node or a transaction of version *n* may be interpreted by consulting any
```

transaction, and you may always simply consult the latest appropriate
version.

> By contrast, a node, or a transaction of version *s* must be rejected by a consumer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast, a node or a transaction of version *s* must be rejected by a consumer
```

this specification may be vital for correctly interpreting transactions
defined under those later versions, and you must not suppose otherwise.

> For example, suppose you have a transaction of version 10.  You can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, suppose you have a transaction of version 12.  You can
```

expect it to be interpreted the same by consumers implementing

> specification version 11, 12, 5000, and so on.  On the other hand, you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specification version 12, 13, 14, 5000, and so on.  On the other hand, you can
```

* `message NodeExercise`_ exercise
* `message NodeLookupByKey`_ lookup

*since version dev*

As of version dev, this optional field is included:

* ``string`` ``version``

The field ``version`` is optional.

If present it must be a valid version as described under `field version`_, different from "10", and not newer

> that the version of the enclosing Transaction message. Other it is assumed to be version "10".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that the version of the enclosing ``Transaction`` message. Otherwise it is assumed to be version "10".
```

> Field field ``create``, ``fetch``, ``exercise`` and  ``lookup`` shall be consumed according to that version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fields ``create``, ``fetch``, ``exercise`` and  ``lookup`` shall be consumed according to that version.
```

  The ``stakeholders`` and ``signatories`` field have the same meaning
  they have for ``NodeCreate``.

  The ``actors`` field contains the parties that exercised the choice.
  The ``controllers`` field contains the parties that _can_ exercise
  the choice. Note that according to the ledger model these two fields
  _must_ be the same. For this reason the ``controllers`` field was

>   removed in version 6 -- see *since version 10* below.

Reviewer: Given that we don't support version 6 anymore can we simply drop the `controllers` field and remove the sentence?

Author: dropped.
